---
layout: post
title: "Alberto Fernandez, AFSE Student, Weekly Reflection 04"
date: 2018-10-12
---
This week we had Monday off due to Columbus day, so we are going to have one reflection less than usual. We also don't have APCSP on Tuesday so the reflections start with Wednesday first period. Today in APCSP class, we were basically tasked with researching the library that pyret has to offer, and try to use the definitions and code it has, to make our flag on pyret. The pyret library can be accessed by signing in with a google account, going to the top left corner on the editor, going to documentation, builtins, and libraries, and then for this APCSP class, we went to 3.19 image. In class, we also defined the term API, which means application programming interface. After we did this though, we worked on inputting our flags into pyret, and before I knew it the period was almost over. We were told the gameplan for the next two days (Thursday and Friday) which were pair programming, and then working on our blogs for Friday.

Ok, so I'm writing my Thursday and Friday reflections on Friday even though I normally do them on the day they happen (ex. Thursday reflection on Thursday) and right now am doing this part of my reflection in class. I also got lots of feedback on last weeks reflection (more on that later) but also learned about doing our reflections in two parts, those being "our learning" and "my learning". I'm going to start doing reflections in this format so here we go.

# Our Learning (Thursday)
Alright, so on Thursday our lesson was based on pair programming. We were basically taught us problem-solving technique used by professional engineers. The teacher also explained how this is used for solving difficult problems. Pair programming involves two programmers and one computer where one person is the driver and the other is the navigator. The driver's role is to use the keyboard and mouse but also completes low-level thinking by looking for details, spelling, organizing, etc. On the other hand, the navigator thinks more about the problem, reviews documents, and checks for errors. They also do high-level thinking where they find errors and look at the bigger picture. 

# My Learning (Thursday)
So for the "my learning" part of Thursday's reflection we have the part of APCSP where me and my partner both worked on creating different images in part using the documents given too us, but also pair programming. We started off with me being the navigator while my partner was the driver. We then had to switch for every problem we got done and had to work our way through a couple of problems. The problems basically tested or pair programming skills by making us code different shapes onto other shapes, and make images out of them to then help prepare us to make our hand-picked flags.

# Our Learning (Friday)
On Friday we had a lesson where we basically make a do now and then that dictates most of the rest of the lesson. The "do now" was basically giving feedback on 4 different student reflections of their CS classes. The  first student had about 2 broad and very general sentences about what they did, the second had a pretty solid reflection but had an overall evaluation of the week as opposed to a more detailed reflection about each day, student three started off well, but then went off topic with their personal life, and then student four had a pretty solid reflection, but was deemed "too long" by most. Well, student four was MY weekly reflection 3, so last weeks reflection. 

# My Learning (Friday)
This is where I switch it up to my learning because I was fortunate to be able to get real-time feedback on my reflections from peers. I learned that a majority of the class thought that my reflections were too long, but some did appreciate the detail and effort put into them. I also learned from the teacher that we should divide out reflections into the two parts of "our learning" and "my learning" which you might have noticed already. After we gave feedback on the student reflections though, we went to computers and started to implement some of the things we have feedback on, but then we also styled our websites. This is also where I started the first part of my reflections for Thursday and Friday.
