---
layout: post
title: "Alberto Fernandez, AFSE Student, Weekly Reflection 08"
date: 2018-11-09
---

# Connections and Reflections (Monday)
Last period on Monday was APCSP   and when we entered the classroom we were assigned new seats and computers. We all proceeded to these new seats and then got to work on the warm up for the new unit which was introduction to structures. We had a digital warm up which meant that we did it on computers and this warm up wasn't anything new since it was a pyret program that has been showed before in class. Before, we did a see, think, wonder discussion on the pyret program, but now we tried to edit it so that a package could be delivered to a house. Personally, I messed around with it by changing the x and y values of this line of code called ``` next-position ``` to see if something would change in the program, but nothing happened. After a while though, we got brought back together and were showed some more information on how we could potentially edit the code and the program so that we could get the package delivered. In this time, we learned how to construct data functions in pyret, but also how to access the data of these functions. Overall, connections throughout monday's lesson are how we learned how to create new types of data on pyret, similar to how we did last week by using speicifc details, and our own judement and input on the code.

# Connections and Reflections (Wednesday)
Coming off a fresh day-off from election day, there was APCSP class first period on wednesday, in which the warm up was for us to image that we own a famous bakery. Now with this bakery, we have to make cakes with a flavor, layers, and decide whether or not the cakes will contain ice cream or not. This warm up was meant to show us that our lesson for today was going to invlove something with strings (flavor), numbers (layers), and booleans (ice-cream). We reviewed the warm up and it was apparent that we were going to be working with these three key aspects. When the class was finished reviewing the warm up, the teacher sent us to computers so that we could do a see think observe on a pyret program about a bakery and then give our responses and observations on google classroom. This is a small connection that is similar to the other reflections on google classroom we have done before, but this time we didn't respond to other classmates. After a little bit of observing the bakery programs, we were brought back to our seats from the computers to review what we were going to do for part 2 of todays lesson. This was to show and explain to us a data function (MyCake) that contained the flavor, layers, and ice-cream we were talking about before. After we were shown this, we all went onto pyret and made our own "cakes" with the data function we were shown below. I personally made a 30 layered pinepple cake with ice-cream on it named ``` "epic-cake" ``` which I was extremely proud of, but an overall connection for this specific class is how we reviewed a data function similar to how we did on Monday.

# Connections and Reflections (Thursday)
Today's reflection will hopefully be a shorter one as a fire drill that evacuated the entire school building and cut about 20 out of 60 minutes of APCSP time. Anyways, we still had a warm up for today's class and it was to determine whether or not ``` birthday-cake ``` was taller than ``` red-velvet-cake ```. To get the answer to this we had to look at the number of ``` layers ``` for each of the two cakes. ``` birthday-cake ``` had a number of 4 ``` layers ```, while ``` red-velvet-cake ``` had a number of 2 ``` layers ```. This concept and idea of determining what has a higher value number wise, or in this case which cake is taller, was the entire point of today's lesson. In fact, after the warm up, we had 20 minutes of computer time to work on two particular functions that involved booleans with number data. We were taught to try an use examples to solve these number data functions, so I used examples and I used the ``` check: ``` call to fix the two main functions of ``` taller-than ``` and ``` will-melt ```. These two functions were meant to determine whether or not a cake is taller than another, and determine if a cake contained ice cream or not, and if it would melt, respectively. After a while, we finished doing this at the computer, and since the day was so short due to the fire drill, the period was over. A connection for today would be the correlation between the pre given programs we get from the teacher to build on and edit, but also there is a similarity in how we were able to create tables and specific data to demonstrate a general idea in code.

# Connections and Reflections (Friday)
Last period. APCSP. Warm up started with us being asked to create a funcion in our notebooks that took in a perimeter of a square, and outputted the area of that square. I didn't really understand the problem, even though I saw it before in one of our word problem solving programs given to us, but still tried. I created the following funcion:
```
area-sq::(Number :: * :: Number)
```
This was wrong when we reviewed it because what you're actually suppossed to do is 
```
perimeter-to-area::(p :: Number) -> Number
```
