---
layout: post
title: "Alberto Fernandez, AFSE Student, Weekly Reflection 06"
date: 2018-10-26
---

# Connections and Reflections (Monday)

Alright so on Monday APCSP was last period and our do now basically was a paper with a bunch of different question on subjects like sports, pop culture, politics, and education. We choose which questions we could answer and which questions we would want to be answered and then talked about why. The teacher went around to some students and asked which questions did they pick and why. (<b> Personal Moment </b>) I was picked to reflect on my question choice and I chose 'Sports: Who is the greatest QB of all time?'. I chose this question because I enjoy watching football, thought that I could answer it pretty easily, but also wanted to hear other answer to the question. After we did this do now though, we smoothly transitioned into the main lesson and work of today's class, which was observing some small table sample code on pyret, and writing what we see on the code, and what we wonder. After this, we wrote two sentences on these two things and posted them to a discussion on google classroom. Once we did this, we had to respond to two other classmates with their responses on what the observe and wonder. Basically the whole class did this and I personally observed that the code showed two shapes tand the amount of corners of the shapes in a table format. When we were done doing this, we were told to save the program to out google drives, which means we are potentially going to keep working on this program, and continue building our pyret skill plus knowledge on table-making. This lesson and program for the day could connect to our flag making as it was done on pyret and needed us to use shapes and numbers to insert facts about shapes on a table, but also connects to a prior lesson where we reviewed some pre-typed code, and then gave our input on it. The only difference with this lesson and the one from before is that it looks like we are going to go more in-depth into this shapes and tables one.

# Connections and Reflections (Wednesday)

On wednesday APCSP was first period and the 'do now' for the class was to demonstrate the previous code we worked on about a table for shapes' number of corners and whether they are round or not by writing it down in our notebooks and then showing the teacher when he came around to check. Once the teacher went around and saw if we needed more help or not on what was asked for on Monday, he taught the class about how for the is-shape? part of our tables, that we can create boolean statements to automate whether a shape has more than 0 corners or not, and if it does have more, then the shape is not round. I haven't quite learned how to apply this to my code yet, but i'll get to it sooner or later. Connections inbetween todays lesson and lessons from before are that we use pyret for this lesson with data tables, the flag project, and to create the rows of data in the table. Overall though, today's lesson helps build our knowledge in data organizing, and builing code and projects in pyret which we will later need to submit to college board.

# Connections and Reflections (Thursday)

APCSP was second period on Thursday and it started off with us reviewing and writing down some notes that were ment to help us creat pie charts and bar charts in pyret. The code was the following: 
``` 
pie-chart :: (t :: Table, label-cd :: String, data-cd :: String) -> Image

bar-chart :: ( " , " , " ) -> Image
```
This code was meant to teach us more about recording and displaying data within a program like pyret. This code and today's overall lesson is a key connection as it correlates with our 'shapes' data tables from monday and wednesday. Not only this but this lesson has a comparison with our flag project from our previous unit as it uses code from pyret. Even more though, today we also did a google classroom discussion on sample code for a second time this unit. Although this time we were comparing and contrasting two different sets of data, one from pyret and one from google sheets. The two were the same table of data, just displayed on two different platforms. It was observed by most that the pyret code was a copy of the google sheets code as one of the lines cited g-drive or google drive. Some (including me) wondered that if changes were made to the google sheets file, that if it would automatically change the pyret code. I responded to some people in the class who were thinking about this and after a while of everyone doing the see, observe, respond, the class was over. Apperantaly some people didn't have high quality discussions on google classroom as people were apperantly making lots of jokes, which the teacher called out the whole class for. He said that we have to raise the quality of the google discussions and then the period was completely over.

# Connections and Reflections (Friday)

APCSP, last period Friday, the taste of the weekend is already present. Our 'do now' for today was to basically just write some notes that were on the board about reactive systems (which we will work on next week), data science, and internet. These terms were specificly chosen as they were the main terms that we are going to use this year in APCSP. Some of the terms for reactive systems include call/apply, domian, and range. For data science some of the terms were argiements, quantitative, and table. Lastly, for internet, there was markup, HTML, and tag for some of the key terms. After this, the teacher talked about giving us a chance for our first professional (4) oppurtinuity. He said that we needed to make detailed connections with examples about how this week's unit connects to other things we have done this year and to connect it to other things like our math classes. Following this right after, we were able to start up our blog posts and make improvements. We had about 20 minutes to talk to any other class mates and peers for advice, and then had about 15 minutes of independent silent work time with some nice classical background music. I was able to do most of my blog work, in fact all the way up to the point you're reading this at. Anyways, the period was pretty mch finished when I completed that previous part of my reflection. Now for connections, some connections for this week were that within all of the work we have done this year so far for APCSP, we needed specific details and information to get it done. For example, with our table that we did this week, we needed the exact data of either shapes or animals to produce an accurate data table. Even more, with out flag project, we needed precise coordinates to put all of the shapes onto one another to make the flag realistic. Inputting strings and numbers into contracts can even relate to this. We could even go back to the first thing we did in the class which was to try and stack a bunch of APCSP course textbooks on top of each other, we needed precise and exacted folding or rolling to do so. Overall so far, detail and precision are what matter the most in APCSP right now.
