---
layout: post
title: "Alberto Fernandez, AFSE Student, Weekly Reflection 07"
date: 2018-11-02
---

# Connections and Reflections (Monday)

Brand new week for APCSP and the first class of this week was 7th period and it started with a 'do now' of two expressions that were in a circle form as there was a large circle with a multiplyer, and then a smaller circle with addition. There were two of these and in the language of math they were 3(7 + 10) and 3(11 + 10). We basically had to compare and contrast these two to see the similarities and differences. A key simliarity was that both of the expressions added before they multiplied, while a huge difference was that the two expressions are identical, besides for the '7' and '11'. The teacher then said when reviewing the 'do now' that the 7 or 11 could be a variable in a function. He then proceeded to show us how to code functions in pyret by using these two 'do now' problems as examples. The code shown was the following:
```
fun f(x): 3 * (x + 10)
```
This was our introduction to creating functions in pyret and it didn't stop there, after the 'do now' and the mini-lesson was done, we got about 20 minutes on computers to try out 16 word problems in which we had to create functions for them. I got to about halfway until our 20 minutes were over and then the teacher called us over back to our seats to discuss how to help us out if we were struggling with some of the word problems. He showed us a base layout for the 1st word problem in which he started off with something similar to what was showed after the 'do now' in the previous mini lesson, but then added on as he showed us how to code contracts for our functions, but also test cases to make sure that our functions worked. We then went back to computers at where we the continued to work on the word problems, but now incorporating the contracts and test cases. We kept doing this for some time, and eventually the period came to an end. As a whole, a connection to prior work we completed would be similar to last weeks connections as it would be putting specific and precise details in our code. On the other hand though, a connection to work we may complete in the future is some of the work we will submit to the college board as we need to make a function thats an abstraction over expression.

# Connections and Reflections (Wednesday)

We had APCSP first period on Wednesday which had a 'do now' that was basically asking us to make a data table for numbers, strings, images, and booleans. The examples that we had to put into the data tables were 9, 1/2, "Wednesday", "9", image of a triangle, bitmap-url("..."), true, 3 <= 4, true AND false. We organized these data sets into tables independently, and then after a while shared our answers to make sure everyone got their data shares correct. After this, we talked the questions of what functions are, what are the things that are in parenthesis called, and whats the difference between contracts and test cases? The first one was pretty much answered yesterday which was that functions are abstractions over equations, the second was attempted to be solved by saying domain and inputs, but wasn't confirmed as a correct answer, and then for the last question I answered that contracts write the "script" for hat one has to do to code something, while a test case tests and checks if one's example follows the contract and program. The part when we discussed the questions above took up most of the period so once we were done, the period was over. A connection for today's lesson was how we are relating functions, contracts, and examples to the other programs and pieces of code we built in prior lessons and weeks.

# Connections and Reflections (Thursday)

APCSP class was 2nd period on Thursday, but at this point you, the reader, should know this. The 'do now' for today was for us to create a contract for finding the hypotenuse of a triangle. I personally was a little bit confused on the 'do now' because I didn't see it explained enough, so I only wrote the base of the contract until we reviewed the entire thing as a class. I think my original base contracted was wrong as I changed it since the teacher gave us a important base contract builder that looks like the following:
```
hypotenuse :: (          ) -> __________
```
Obviously contracts won't use specifically hypotenuse, but everything else is a base set up. After setting this up, we created a function for hypotenuse and then got sent to computers to continue to work on the previously shared program on pyret that we had to make functions for 16 questions from monday, but now only needed to create contracts for all 16 of these problems. We did this for a while but the teacher noticed that some students were struggling so brought the entire class badk except for me and one other kid to help the others out with creating their contracts. After the mini lecture everyone continued to work for a little bit until basically the period was over. Before we left though the teacher wanted us to answer the question of "what is a contract?" in our reflection. To that my answer would be that a contract is a set up instructions or rules that you must abide by to get the ideal output. Rounding it up, this will be my last reflection of the week as on Friday I'm going on a 'food loves tech' trip so I won't be able to reflect on the class. Overall I was told in my advisory that I should go for a "less is more approach" on my reflection, so I guess I'll try that, I'm just trying to get a 4 though. But finally, connections with Thursday's lesson include us using the same program we were introduced to on monday and learning how to build upon it, but also a connection is building our skill and knowledge with definitions, contracts, abstractions, and functions as we will need these things to help pass the APCSP exams. 
