---
layout: post
title: "Alberto Fernandez, AFSE Student, Weekly Reflection 11"
date: 2018-12-07
---

# Monday Reflection

Monday was basically just an intro day to our 2 week project on flags that is meant to prepare us for a the real college project we will need to complete later in the year. We started off class by dividing everbody into 6 groups based on where they sat at in their table. This determined which two flags we could select from, one flag being up to a practioner grade-wise, and another more challenging flag up to professional. The two flags I was given to choose from were Cuba and Pakistan. I choose Pakistan because it was the one that could give me up to a professional. When we choose our flags, we were tasked to do research on them by using fotw.info to see the dimensions, ratios, and lengths of the flag. The Pakistan flag looked like it provided a cchallenge, but nothing too difficult. I started working on it in pyret and I basically just need to get two circles to overlap to create the illusion of a crescent, and learn how to rotate a star and position it where it needs to be. Easier said than done but 7 more classes to do this is plenty.

# Thursday/friday Reflection

I'm going to skip wednesday's reflection but am still going to incorporate the aspects of it as it was day 1 of our flag collages. Besides that though, the teacher also wants us to stop summarizing what we do daily/weekly, so don't mind whats above.

On Thursday we had a fairly relaxed day as half the grade was out on a trip, so the teachers didn't feel like giving out work and the students didn't feel like doing work. Due to this, in AP CSP we basically had 2 seminar discussions on which direction the class as a whole should go in, but also how we feel about our current flag project. In the warm up for the day, we were asked what is wrong with the current flag project and if we were to start from scratch again, what should be added, what we want to learn, or what should be token away. I put down that I want to learn more about the tilt degree of the Pakistan star, the angle of the crescent, and that we have limited-ish supplies, all the flag colors provided, work at computers when doing collages to have instant research. After this, the first seminar took place and some of the notes I took on it were that people want a lot more time with the project, better transition from the computer to paper, more explanation in our tasks, are the other (Bunin) classes ahead of us?, good job to the teacher in being invloved, that we are looking forward to what we want to learn in the future, and to provide extra optional practice for core topics on the end of the year test. This was a large chunk of the first discussion and I particularly think that getting better at the transition from the computer to paper and wanting some more explanation on our tasks are important. I think that the change from PC to paper is key in this class because we have to learn how to blend what we do in things like pyret to what we do one paper like out flag collages. Not only this, but learning general internet and computer information and applying it to the multiple choice college board test also seems very important to the AP CSP class. Additionally, more explanations could be helpful as knowing why we are doing tasks we are assigned to do could help us understand the end goal and the skills that have to be upgraded to help us reach that end goal. 

The second seminar was the one I actually participated in and I remember some of it but not all as I didn't take notes on it. The primary discussion was students wanting to have more creative work with the course. Counters to that were that we don't have too much time in class for creative work, some people have limited computer access at home, and that this is being attempted, but the blend between learning the material and having creative work is difficult to form. A recommendation that was put out to help fix that was to have a day after school that would provide an hour of creative work time. I said that this idea could have results some may not want as if someone is in a room with other peers and the teacher of the course, then they would most likely collaborate or ask for help, which could be creative, just not completely their own. The idea doesn't sound to bad and should be experimented with in my opinion. 

This was overall most of my weekly reflection and mainly directed toward the teacher as feedback for the AP CSP class. Friday was basically us being able to work on this very reflection, so the reflection for it is a comination of what we did Thursday and the feedback.
